README.md, before:

# dbsql_metrics

The 'dbsql_metrics' project demonstrates how to use [**Databricks Asset Bundles**](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/dev-tools/bundles/) with [**Unity Catalog Metric Views**](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/metric-views/) to create a end-to-end analytics solution on Databricks. This project showcases best practices for organizing, deploying, and managing Databricks SQL resources using the modern Asset Bundle framework.


## Prerequisites

### 1. Install the Databricks CLI
Install the Databricks CLI from https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/install.html

### 2. Authenticate to your Databricks workspace
```bash
$ databricks configure
```

### 3. Set up Python Virtual Environment
Create and activate a Python virtual environment to manage dependencies:

```bash
# Create virtual environment
$ python -m venv venv

# Activate virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
$ source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
$ venv\Scripts\activate

# Install required Python packages
$ pip install PyYAML
```

### 4. Configure databricks.yml Variables
Update the variables in `databricks.yml` to match your environment:

- **catalog**: The catalog name where your tables will be created
- **schema**: The schema name within the catalog
- **warehouse_id**: ID of your SQL warehouse for production deployment. For development, the bundle will attempt to find a warehouse named "Shared Serverless".
- **workspace.host**: Your Databricks workspace URL

Example configuration for dev target:
```yaml
targets:
  dev:
    mode: development
    default: true
    workspace:
      host: https://your-workspace.cloud.databricks.com
    variables:
      catalog: your_catalog
      schema: your_schema
```

### 5. Generate Dashboard Configuration
Before deploying the bundle, run the Python script to generate the dashboard configuration with your specific catalog and schema:

```bash
$ cd src
$ python replace_dashboard_template.py
```

This script:
- Reads your `databricks.yml` configuration
- Takes the template dashboard (`dbsql_metrics_template.lvdash.json`)
- Replaces `CATALOG_NAME` and `SCHEMA_NAME` placeholders with your actual values
- Generates the final dashboard file (`dbsql_metrics.lvdash.json`)

## Deployment

### Deploy to Development Environment
```bash
$ databricks bundle deploy --target dev
```
(Note that "dev" is the default target, so the `--target` parameter is optional here.)

This deploys everything that's defined for this project, including:
- A job called `[dev yourname] dbsql_metrics_job`
- SQL metric views and dashboards
- All associated resources

You can find the deployed job by opening your workspace and clicking on **Workflows**.

### Deploy to Production Environment
```bash
$ databricks bundle deploy --target prod
```

### Run a Job
```bash
$ databricks bundle run
```

## Development Tools

For enhanced development experience, consider installing:
- Databricks extension for Visual Studio Code: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext.html

## Documentation

For comprehensive documentation on:
- **Databricks Asset Bundles**: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/index.html
- **CI/CD configuration**: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/index.html

## Project Structure

- `src/`: Source files including notebooks and dashboard templates
- `resources/`: Bundle resource definitions (jobs, dashboards)
- `databricks.yml`: Main bundle configuration file
- `src/replace_dashboard_template.py`: Script to customize dashboard templates

Commit message:

Replace template-based dashboard generation with direct JSON update
- Replace replace_dashboard_template.py with replace_dashboard_vars.py
- Update script to directly modify JSON parameters instead of using dashboard template
- Remove dbsql_metrics_template.lvdash.json as it's no longer needed

README.md, after:

# dbsql_metrics

The 'dbsql_metrics' project demonstrates how to use [**Databricks Asset Bundles**](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/dev-tools/bundles/) with [**Unity Catalog Metric Views**](https://docs.databricks.com/aws/en/metric-views/) to create a end-to-end analytics solution on Databricks. This project showcases best practices for organizing, deploying, and managing Databricks SQL resources using the modern Asset Bundle framework for data warehouse workload.


## Prerequisites

### 1. Install the Databricks CLI
Install the Databricks CLI from https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/install.html

### 2. Authenticate to your Databricks workspace
```bash
$ databricks configure
```

### 3. Set up Python Virtual Environment
Create and activate a Python virtual environment to manage dependencies:

```bash
# Create virtual environment
$ python -m venv venv

# Activate virtual environment
# On macOS/Linux:
$ source venv/bin/activate
# On Windows:
$ venv\Scripts\activate

# Install required Python packages
$ pip install PyYAML
```

### 4. Configure databricks.yml Variables
Update the variables in `databricks.yml` to match your environment:

- **catalog**: The catalog name where your tables will be created
- **schema**: The schema name within the catalog
- **warehouse_id**: ID of your SQL warehouse for production deployment. For development, the bundle will attempt to find a warehouse named "Shared Serverless".
- **workspace.host**: Your Databricks workspace URL

Example configuration for dev target:
```yaml
targets:
  dev:
    mode: development
    default: true
    workspace:
      host: https://your-workspace.cloud.databricks.com
    variables:
      catalog: your_catalog
      schema: your_schema
```

### 5. Update Dashboard Configuration
Before deploying the bundle, run the Python script to update the dashboard configuration with your specific catalog and schema:

```bash
$ cd src
$ python replace_dashboard_vars.py
```

This script:
- Reads your `databricks.yml` configuration
- Updates the existing dashboard file (`dbsql_metrics.lvdash.json`)
- Replaces the catalog and schema parameter values with your actual values from the databricks.yml file
- Preserves all other dashboard configuration settings

## Deployment

### Deploy to Development Environment
```bash
$ databricks bundle deploy --target dev
```
(Note that "dev" is the default target, so the `--target` parameter is optional here.)

This deploys everything that's defined for this project, including:
- A job called `[dev yourname] dbsql_metrics_job`
- SQL metric views and dashboards
- All associated resources

You can find the deployed job by opening your workspace and clicking on **Workflows**.

### Deploy to Production Environment
```bash
$ databricks bundle deploy --target prod
```

### Run a Job
```bash
$ databricks bundle run
```

## Development Tools

For enhanced development experience, consider installing:
- Databricks extension for Visual Studio Code: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext.html

## Documentation

For comprehensive documentation on:
- **Databricks Asset Bundles**: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/index.html
- **CI/CD configuration**: https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/index.html

## Project Structure

- `src/`: Source files including notebooks and dashboard templates
- `resources/`: Bundle resource definitions (jobs, dashboards)
- `databricks.yml`: Main bundle configuration file
- `src/replace_dashboard_vars.py`: Script to update dashboard configuration with catalog and schema values
